# hunger-and-food-security


Learning Objectives: 

The purpose of our chapter’s data work has been to understand the landscape of data related to food security. First, our purpose is to learn the relationship among raw data, an indicator, and a composite index.  Understanding these will help us recognize all the steps from data collection to data visualization, and help us experience the difficulties of managing the data. Second, our purpose is to connect concepts and theories with empirical evidence.  It is challenging to identify relationships among different indicators and to test theories related to food security. Third, our purpose is to effectively visualize datasets for comparison among countries and indicators. 

Our data module efforts will be to illustrate how concepts in food security are operationalized and translated into data and indicators. As we mentioned explicitly, there are four dimensions to measure food security, however, the concept of food security still lacks conceptual clarity in development theory and practice. For example, the sustainability factor is lacking but important,  when it comes to long-term environmental impact that is caused by and results in food insecurity. 

Finally, it is a myriad to define and measure food security, because it is linked to multiple indicators, across different age groups, genders, and household sizes. In fact, there is no universally agreed upon index or rankings that points to the right decision of food aid. This data module builds on this empirical work by asking what data is available that indicates whether food is secured, how indicators are being chosen and combined into a composite index. 


Major Challenges: 

Empirical evidence, in many cases, is difficult to translate into theory, due to the difficulty of setting up control experiments to testify and distinguish the key factors among multiple factors that impact the result.  One solution may be to evaluate the accuracy of human decisions that are based on these indices. Taking food security evaluation as an example, we are uncertain about which index could provide us with the correct decision of food aid (correct here means with adequate amount and timing). To testify the indices, we can measure the accuracy of the food aid decisions that are based on these indices. We can measure the accuracy of governments and NGOs’ food aid programs, in order to know whether and which index can lead to the right decisions of food allocation. 

Another challenge is that how can governments and NGOs make aid decisions when there are multiple factors to consider? The problem again is due to the fact that each composite index includes various dimensions. To illustrate this, we can use a toy model–to compare the size of two people’s hands. There are two people A and B, and each hand has five fingers (1 2 3 4 5). When measuring the size of a hand, I can use a ruler to measure the length of the five fingers of A’s hand, and then measure the length of the five fingers of B’s hand. However, when we compare A’s and B’s hands, and try to rank their hands, should we compare finger 1 or finger 2 (or finger 3 or finger 4 or finger 5), or should we compare the average of the total five fingers? The answer is unclear. The same problem applies when measuring “food security,” say country A and country B have equal population size (say 500 people for each), we can compare each person’s food security level in between country A and country B. However, because “food security level” composes four dimensions, it becomes hard to measure with a simple conclusion. 
